NETID:  jfw222

Describe the contents of an IP packet and for each field describe the purpose it serves.

    1)  Version: of the protocol
    2)  IHL: how long the header will be
    3)  Service Type: consists of 1) precedence 2) delay 3) throughput 4)
        5) reliability
    4)  Length: total length of the IP packet header & packet data inclusive
    5)  Identification: communicates what conversation the packet belongs to
    6)  Flags: Indicate whether or not the packet should NOT be fragmented or
        if there are more fragments coming
    7)  Fragment offset: Indicates the sequences that the packets should be in
    8)  TTL: How many hops the packet has left before a router drops it to
        prevent it from circulating forever/ slowing down the network
    9)  Protocol: Indicates the "Application Layer" protocol that sits "above"
        IP like TCP.
    10) Checksum: The value that indicates if the integrity of the IP Packet
        header is correct
    11) Source IP: Sender's IP address
    12) Destination IP: Recipients IP Address
    13) Options & padding: Generally not used, but can contain extra metadata
    14) Data: The higher level protocol header and associated data being sent
        through IP.

Describe the general operation of the BGP protocol.

    The Border Gateway Protocol serves to bridge the gap between various AS
    (Autonomous Systems). Different sections of the internet exist,

Describe why the ethernet protocol necessitates a minimum packet size.

    The ethernet protocol uses a minimum packet size to facilitate collision
    detection and for compatability reasons. 64 byte collision detection
    doesn't work with modern networks, but there is no reason to get rid
    of it. It also keeps compatibility with old software.

Describe how TCP reacts to congestion in the network.  Assume that
congestion is brought on by BGP reconfiguring the path such that TCP
packets now go through a bottleneck link of capacity B packets/second.
Describe in detail what TCP will do when faced with this bottleneck.

    TCP reacts to network congestion by slowing down the sender, and beginning
    to increase the sending rate. When faced with this bottle neck, TCP will
    cut back to 1 MSS, and will double its rate until it reaches B/2. Then
    it will begin "collision avoidance" and increase slowly until it reaches
    stasis (or until the next time the network is gummed up).

Describe TCP's behavior when it is first getting started delivering data
over a high latency, high-bandwidth channel such as a satellite link. Be
sure to explain how TCP manages its window size during the initial
connection setup.

    TCP goes through what is called the "slow start phase." The window size
    starts out at it's smallest (1 MSS) and, for each ACK, doubles the
    throughput.

On an ethernet segment, the ARP protocol is used to locate the ethernet
address of a host whose IP address is known. On the Internet, DNS is
used to locate the IP address of a host whose name is known. ARP and
DNS are drastically different -- the former uses a broadcast mechanism
while the latter implements a scalable, distributed database. Explain
why DNS was designed the way it was, and not, for instance, based on
a simple broadcast.

    DNS was designed to work with the scale of the internet. Think of it like
    a decision tree. It steps through the DNS hierarchy to resolve hostnames
    rather than crashing the internet with constant, potentially enormous,
    broadcasts.

Describe the two means by which a DNS name, such as www.cnn.com, is
resolved.

    1)  Recursive: The client reaches out to the server, which responds if it
        has the answer, or asks other servers.
    2)  Iterative: The client reaches our to the server, which responds if it
        has the answer, or returns the name of the next server to ask.

What is a DNS local resolver?

    Software installed oon a server performing DNS lookups that can lookup the
    "Fully Qualified Domain Name" for any IP. Is available form the OS vendors
    of all OSes supported with ASL and is installed on most systems.
    - Answer referenced from:
    "https://www.atomicorp.com/wiki/index.php?title=Local_DNS_resolver"

What purpose does the ACK # serve in TCP?

    The ACK number provides the next byte of data that the other machine is
    waiting for. The first ACK sent by both ends of the conversation both
    ACKnowledges the other's existence sequence.

What purpose does the destination port number serve in UDP?

    The port number serves to send information to correct process.

Why does UDP include a checksum? Wouldn't the end-to-end argument
require that all checksums be performed at the application level, and
hence argue that UDP and TCP elide such additional checksums in the
network stack?

    UDP doesn't care about details, but it does assure integrity.
    By performing a check at each stage, errors are caught sooner, increasing
    the efficiency of the protocol and increasing the likelihood that they
    will be caught.

Imagine that a mail server on host A has just received a TCP/IP SYN
packet destined for it. Describe everything that happens to this packet
from the point of its reception by the network interface card to the
point of its delivery to the mail server.

    Starts on the NIC:
    1)  Is on the Network Layer as packets on the NIC
    2)  IP header is stripped and the data is sent along the Transport Layer
        as a TCP packet.
    3)  (skipping describing session and presentation layers) The data has been
        parsed to digestible form by whatever application is receiving it.
        In our case, it was SMTP.

In IPv6, why do routers not fragment packets? Then how does IPv6 deal with the issue
of Minimum Transmission Unit (MTU)?

    IPv6 routers do not fragment packets due to efficiency. It is far more
    efficient for the source to handle the resizing of the information. IPv6
    deals with MTUs in one of two ways:
        1) Use the default MTU of 1280 which all physical networks can handle.
        2) Use "Path MTU Discovery" - a node sends messages over the route it
        will use to determine how large it can make the packets.

What is the difference between a web proxy and a vpn? When would it be advantageous 
to use a proxy instead of a vpn?

    Proxy is better for keeping cost down. Proxies can also be used to fake
    locational data. A proxy simply acts as an intermediary for requests. A VPN
    is actually an encrypted virtual tunnel over the telecom structure, granting
    a user secure access. VPNs are also generally restricted to one computer per
    connection, where a proxy can support many.
